# Texture Packer

Texture Packer is a Python program that takes PNG images generated by Shoebox from https://renderhjs.net/shoebox/ and packs them all into one texture atlas PNG with very little waste.

## How it Works

The program uses the Python Imaging Library (PIL) and OpenCV to process the images. It separates each rectangle island into a list of coordinates and offsets. Then it tries to place each rectangle in the strip to see how much of the space is filled. The best fit is placed and a new strip area is placed to the right and below the placed rectangle. When the max width is reached, a new strip is placed below the first rectangle. All valid strips are tracked, so images can be placed in a strip above the most recent one.

The program also calculates the percentage of transparency remaining in the output image and the average transparency of the source image(s)
 
## Usage

To use the program, you need to have Python installed on your machine.

## Future Work

- The current version of the program only supports one type of packing algorithm. More packing methods exist. You can search for strip packing algorithms.
- I'd love to impliment a toggle to allow for textures to be rotated for best fit.
- Each independant check can be run in it's own thread, and output their fit and image. This would wildly speed up the dynamic fit biasing, but I was afraid it might mess up the exe.
- The loading bar only updates with the progress of the first scale check. I don't care enough to fix.

## Contributions

Contributions are welcome.
